Hello to all of you guys Today I will teach you to make the Central perspective
of a square-based pyramid We will start from a projection to arrive at
a central perspective Usually only the top view is needed
of our solid But we for greater completeness we will use
also the front view Let's put letters on it
We draw a horizontal line (called the land line) which is a few centimeters away
from the pyramid We identify the optical cone thus finding the station point (which coincides
with the point of view), ie the point from which we are observing the object.
We also trace the perpendicular to the horizontal line identifying the points pe p '
For a good perspective it is good that the perpendicular is included within the
perspective cone; that the distance between pv and the pp 'is included
between one and a half times the XY distance and twice the XY distance.
[make hand gestures to indicate the extremes] Then we draw lines at 45 ° on the
horizontal line, thus identifying the points PD1 and PD2, ie point of distance 1 and point
of distance 2 Now we project the vertices of our solid
on the land line naming them. Draw lines at 45 ° that pass through
the significant vertices of the solid and arrive on the land line.
We also name these points. The preparatory phase is complete.
Now place the horizon line LO which will determine the height at which we are observing
the solid. To the side we report the land line LT e
the Horizon line LO at a distance appropriately multiplied by the scale of
magnification choice. In our case we use the 1: 1 scale therefore
we use the same distance. Whenever it is necessary to multiply
for the chosen scale this symbol will appear to remind you.
We trace a perpendicular in the central area that identifies the points pe p '
We now measure the distance between the point b and the point p in projection e (multiplying
for the scale) we report the point b also in perspective. Same procedure for i
points a, h, c, d. Small letters (which are the projections
of the solid) go on the LT while the two distance points PD1 and PD2 go
put with the same method on the LO. From now on we will mainly focus
on the perspective. We combine the points b, h, c with p since they were
vertical projections in perspective. We combine with PD2 because in projection it was
obtained from a line parallel to that of PD2.
With these lines we can now get some points of the base of the pyramid.
The point D is found both on the line b and on the line a so it will be found at their
intersection also in perspective. Similar reasoning for the point b that yes
located both on line c and on line a. Now join point d to point PD1 because
in projection it was obtained from a line parallel to that of PD1.
With a reasoning similar to the previous one we find the points C and A.
Now we only need the top of our pyramid.
From point h we trace a vertical line indicating the height of the pyramid (here
multiply again by the scale). Then we lead to escape.
From the intersection of the diagonals on the ground we draw a vertical line that intersects
the line just drawn in point V. Thus we find the vertex of our pyramid.
By combining the vertices we have thus completed our pyramid with a square base in perspective
central. Discuss if there is something you do not have
understood or if you have questions Sign up to stay up to date on mine
latest videos Thanks for your attention, Hello everyone
next